---
layout: post
title: Digital Malaysia
published: false
---
I have mostly been living in Dali, Yunnan for the past 6 years. I have always been impressed with the digital services in China, especially the applications they have built around the WeChat (Weixin) and AliPay (Zhifubao) platform, QR codes and the mini-app ecosystem. The approach is very pragmatic, and it circles around the computer that all of us are carrying around us in our pockets, i.e. Apple iPhones and Android smartphones.

I am surprised that not more places around the world (to be honest, I am mostly comparing what I know of US, South East Asia, and China) are taking advantage of the fact that _almost_ everyone is carrying around a device that has the Internet connected 24/7, a decent camera with many other sensors, and a robust mobile operating system that can support more use cases (due to the sensors) than a laptop. That being said, I think the COVID pandemic, did push adoption of more use cases, e.g. cashless payments with QR codes.

One example in China that is so simple and straightforward is how China pays for parking: you drive your car in, a camera scans the license plate, registers it in some system the time, and opens the XXX and lets the car in. When you drive out, you can open up your phone and open the parking system's mini-app and pay immediately or drive to the exit, scan a QR code and pay there and then. The process is mostly seamless, and you don't really have to install a new app. You just need WeChat or AliPay. Also, if you have trouble getting out due to whatever reason, you call a number, and some person sitting in some remote office can look at the cameras, and take action. The true power of Internet of Things (IoT) is alive in China. On a side, I remember Facebook built up their app ecosystem rather early on with web technology, but for some reason they abandoned it. It could have been **the WeChat** for the rest of the world. Compare that with Malaysia, which had Touch-And-Go (TnG) system for like _forever_, which worked like an e-wallet, and enabled paying for tolls by just tapping the card on a reader, they expanded into car parks. Unfortunately, it never caught like wildfire, and each car park has their own system. Some are still using paper tickets (and you pay with cash only), some are using TnG, some are using their own cards or tickets, and pay with debit/credit cards. Basically it is a great maze of options, and super confusing. I am happy to report that there are some with license plate readers, and you can pay with numerous types of cards, which is a great experience, but not many places have that implemented yet.
